#  Lhodrak Kharchhu Monastery 

The monastery of Lhodrak Kharchhu, situated in the valley of Bumthang in north-east Bhutan, was founded by Namkhai Nyingpo Rinpoche in 1984.Namkhai Nyingpo Rinpoche was recognized at a very young age by H.H. the Dalai Lama and H.H. the 16th Karmapa, as the incarnation of a Tibetan lama whose spiritual lineage dates back to one of the closest disciples of the great 8th century Master Padmasambhava. Namkhai Nyingpo Rinpoche was a close student of Kyabje Dilgo Khyentse Rinpoche. 

The origins of the monastery go back to 1961, when a representative of H.H. the Dalai Lama visited Bhutan and advised the few remaining monks of Kharchu monastery, then living in exile, to uphold the tradition and the seat of Namkhai Nyingpo. Attempting to follow this advice, they remained together, striving to preserve their tradition until, in 1972, the present Namkhai Nyingpo Rinpoche was discovered and enthroned. Knowing that the survival of the Buddhist teachings depends entirely on those who have the fortune and determination to practice them, Namkhai Nyingpo Rinpoche felt the urgent need to establish a monastery. Therefore in 1982, at the tender age of 16, he bought a small plot of land in Bumthang, central Bhutan, in an area known as Khandro’i Sanglam (the Secret Path of the Dakinis). With hardly any resources at his disposal, Rinpoche succeeded in constructing a two-storey monastery large enough to accommodate 70 monks. At the present time, the monastery complex includes a two-storey building in which there is a classroom for the Shedra (college of higher studies), a dormitory of 33 rooms, as well as a library and offices. 

Since that time, the monastery has grown considerably and now houses a community of almost four hundred monks. As a centre in which extensive efforts are made to preserve and revitalize the culture of Tibet, the monastery has to contend with increasing requests for admission. The Shedra or college in which young monks embark on a course of nine years of advanced study has become one of the most prestigious in Bhutan. The basic curriculum begins with reading and daily prayers, the learning of ritual dance, the creating of mandalas and tormas and the playing of musical instruments used in temple rituals. This is followed by instruction in grammar, poetics, the study of various commentaries, accompanied by instruction in meditation associated with the various levels of the tantras. The monks of Lhodrak Kharchu (who are mostly Bhutanese but may come from further afield, including Tibet) may choose to pursue their studies in the Shedra (philosophical college) or the Drubdra (for training in ceremonies and meditation). 

Given the ever-increasing number of monks, it has become difficult for the monastery to cover its own operating expenses. 

The investments essential for the running of the monastery have been financed by taking loans from the Bhutanese government. These have become difficult to repay owing to increasing rates of interest. In addition to this financial load, the monastery has to cover its living expenses, which are constantly increasing with the arrival of new monks. Namkhai Nyingpo Rinpoche does not have the heart to refuse the requests for admission to the monastery. But this means that the monastery is unable to operate without external help. 

Siddhartha is doing its utmost to ensure a stable income through sponsorship for the upkeep of the monks. However, current sponsorships are far from sufficient to meet the enormous need. 
