---
title: "Tibetan dictionaries"
---

Tibetan-English dictionaries are available in various forms and media: for use online (with an internet connection); as files or programs on CD-ROM or as downloads for use offline (within applications or as stand-alones); and as books. Many are available in more than one of these ways. 

The Rangjung Yeshe (RY) Dictionary is a compilation of Erik Pema Kunzang’s working vocabulary with several digital vocabularies and lists compiled by Jim Valby, Ives Waldo, Richard Barron and Dan Martin. There is a great deal of repetition and duplication, and many entries are vocabulary lists rather than true dictionary entries, but others contain very complete definitions and quoted examples. The dictionary is a very helpful aide-mémoire for people who already have some knowledge of Tibetan. It can be consulted online, and is also available along with much other useful information in diverse forms as a wiki, the Dharma-dictionary, at www.rywiki.tsadra.org. It can also be purchased on CD-ROM from a variety of distributors. The CD-ROM includes a choice of search applications and the dictionary files in different formats. 

The Tibetan to English Dictionary and Translation Tool includes the RY Dictionary, the others mentioned above, and some compilations by Jeffrey Hopkins, into a tool that can be used to provide translations of longer sections of text. The tool divides the syllables comprising the text into the words and phrases by displaying the longest strings found in the dictionaries (which can be very helpful to translators unsure of how to identify larger units in the sequence of syllables) along with their translations and comments. It can be accessed online, or can be downloaded in a variety of forms, including an offline version. 

Tony Duff of the Padma Karpo Translation Committee has produced some useful dictionary software in which many different dictionaries can be consulted (see below), the flagship being The Illuminator Tibetan-English Dictionary, originally based on the entries in the three-volume Tibetan-Tibetan-Chinese tshig mdzod chen mo dictionary but now with many additions from different sources. This is a true dictionary, with carefully researched definitions and much information on grammar, and is probably the most useful digital dictionary for beginners as well as being a useful reference for more experienced translators. There are, however, still many important gaps and the terms included are many fewer in number than the Rangjung Yeshe dictionary. It is also slightly marred by an unusual degree of drum-beating and polemic, and a number of somewhat quirky choices of terminology. It is described in full at [ Padma Karpo Translation Committee ](http://www.tibet.dk/pktc/tibddiction.htm#Illuminator) and can be purchased online, with or without update subscriptions. A free evaluation package with a limited number of entries can also be downloaded. 

An important feature is the software, TibetD Reader, which as well as the main dictionary allows consultation of Sarat Chandra Das’s Tibetan-English dictionary, Geshe Chodrak’s Tibetan-Tibetan dictionary, the Mahavyutpatti Sanskrit-Tibetan-English glossary, a dictionary of learned and or accomplished people of Tibet, a Tibetan verbs database, and a chronological dictionary of Tibetan luminaries. Moreover, the software can be programmed to search for occurrences of a word or phrase in a whole library of texts, providing they are converted to the TibetD format—a very useful feature for researching difficult terms. 

###  Printed dictionaries: books 

Many Tibetan-English dictionaries exist in book form. One of the oldest, still useful, is the Tibetan-English Dictionary by Sarat Chandra Das. Others are Tsepak Rigzin, Tibetan-English Dictionary of Buddhist Terminology (Dharamsala, LTWA, 1993) and Melvyn C. Goldstein, The New Tibetan-English Dictionary of Modern Tibetan (University of California Press, 2004). 

The most complete English-Tibetan dictionary is Acharya Karma Monlam, The New English-Tibetan Dictionary (Dharamsala, Sherig Parkhang, 2000). 

Tibetan-Tibetan dictionaries: the 3-volume Bod rgya tshig mdzod chen mo, published in China by the Nationalities Publishing House (Mi rigs dpe skrun khang), and including definitions in Chinese, is the major work of reference. It has been translated into a Tibetan-English version at London’s School of Oriental and African Studies, but for complex reasons only the first volume has actually been distributed, having been published jointly by the School of Oriental and African Studies and the Nationalities Publishing House in Beijing in 2001 under the title An Encyclopaedic Tibetan-English Dictionary. Another large reference work is Dungkar Losang Thrinley, Dungkar Tibetological Great Dictionary (Dung dkar tshig mdzod chen mo), published in Beijing in 2002 by the China Tibetology Publishing House (krung go’i bod rig pa dpe skrun khang). 

A search tool for several online Sanskrit-English dictionaries can be found at [ Cologne Digital Sanskrit Dictionaries ](http://www.sanskrit-lexicon.uni-koeln.de/scans/MWScan/tamil/index.html) . THDL lists a number of other Sanskrit dictionaries that can be searched or downloaded. 
